{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf500
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat89\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat113\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01.;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww22440\viewh10760\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\b\fs26 \cf0 {\listtext	.	}2020_07_13\
{\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Synaptojanins likely influence vesicle uncoating, but not scission dynamics. 
\f1\b0\fs24 \uc0\u8232 \
{\listtext	.	}Three Synaptojanin-like proteins have been identified in budding yeast: Inp51, Inp52, and Inp53. Inp51-eGFP exhibits a diffuse cytoplasmic signal, Inp52-eGFP localizes to cortical actin patches that are endocytic sites (Fig2 supplement) and Inp53 localizes to patches within the cytoplasm (ref. Spatial and temporal alignment of Inp52 with Sla1 and Rvs167 (ref.Pico) shows that Inp52 protein molecules arrive in the late stage of endocytosis after Rvs167, and localizes to the invagination tip, suggesting a potential role in membrane scission (Fig.2b). \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs14 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}
\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Inp53 was not investigated further, as its localisation conforms with other literature that find it is involved in the golgi trafficking pathway rather than endocytosis (ref Golgi). Although we were unable to see Inp51 localisation at endocytic sites, it may be recruited in small numbers below our detection limit. Deletion of Inp51 has been shown to exacerbate the effect of 
\f2\i inp52
\f1\i0 \uc0\u916  on membrane retraction (ref Liu), so both 
\fs14  
\fs24 Inp51 and Inp52 were tested as potential candidates as scission regulators. \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}Dynamics of \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Sla1-eGFP and Rvs167-eGFP in either 
\f2\i inp51
\f1\i0 \uc0\u916  or 
\f2\i inp52
\f1\i0 \uc0\u916  cells were compared against the WT. Membrane retraction events do not significantly increase compared to the WT in either (Fig2c). \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Magnitude and speed of Sla1 and Rvs167 centroid movement in 
\f2\i inp51
\f1\i0 \uc0\u916  is the same as the WT (Fig2.d, e). In 
\f2\i inp52
\f1\i0 \uc0\u916  cells, Sla1 movement also has the magnitude and speed as WT, but Sla1-eGFP signal is persistent after membrane scission (Fig.2d, arrow). Similarly, although Rvs167 inward movement looks similar to WT in 
\f2\i inp52
\f1\i0 \uc0\u916  (Fig2e), Rvs167-eGFP signal is persistent after inward movement (Fig2e arrow), and Rvs167 and Sla1 disassembly has a delay (Fig2 supplement)\u8232 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl160\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\fs14 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}
\f0\b\fs26 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Rvs BAR domains recognize membrane curvature in-vivo 
\f1\b0\fs24 \uc0\u8232 So far Rvs167 remains the protein that has a major influence on scission rates and inward moment of Sla1. Recruitment of the Rvs complex to endocytic sites was thus investigated further. Interaction between Rvs and membrane curvature 
\f2\i in vivo 
\f1\i0 has been indicated by work on other BAR domain proteins (ref BAR), but has not so far been tested. In order to do so, we deleted the SH3 domain of Rvs167 leaving the N-terminal BAR and GPA regions (henceforth BAR-GPA, Fig3a) and observed the localization of the BAR region without SH3 influence. The GPA region is a disordered domain that has no previously reported function (ref) and was retained to ensure proper folding and function of the BAR domain. Endogenously tagged Rvs167-eGFP and BAR-GPA-eGFP colocalization with Abp1-mCherry in WT and 
\f2\i sla2
\f1\i0 \uc0\u916  cells were compared (Fig3b, first two sections). Sla2 acts as the molecular linker between forces exerted by the actin network and the plasma membrane (ref. Skruzny). 
\f2\i sla2
\f1\i0 \uc0\u916  cells therefore contain a polymerizing actin network at endocytic patches, but the membrane has no curvature, and endocytosis fails. In these cells, the full-length Rvs167 protein co-localizes with Abp1-mCherry, indicating that it is recruited to endocytic sites (Fig3b, \'93
\f2\i sla2
\f1\i0 \uc0\u916 \'94). BAR-GPA localization is removed, except for rare transient patches that do not co-localize with Abp1-mCherry.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl160\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\
{\listtext	.	}#\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
, indicating that in the absence of membrane curvature, the BAR domains cannot localize to endocytic sites (Fig3b, \'93
\f2\i sla2
\f1\i0 \uc0\u916 \'94). \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}
\f0\b\fs26 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Rvs SH3 domains have an actin and curvature independent localisation\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl160\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}
\f1\b0\fs24 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The SH3 domain has known genetic interactions with actin-related endocytic proteins. In order to test if these interactions are prevalent in vivo, we tested the localisation of full-length Rvs167 and BAR-GPA in LatA treated cells (Fig3b, \'93LatA\'94). Plasma membrane localisation of full-length Rvs167 remains upon LatA treatment, and transient patches continue to exist in 
\f2\i sla2
\f1\i0 \uc0\u916  cells treated with LatA (Fig3b, \'93
\f2\i sla2
\f1\i0 \uc0\u916 + LatA\'94). BAR-GPA localisation on the other hand, is removed in both. \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
{\listtext	.	}#\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
This indicates that the localisation of the full-length Rvs167 in LatA and 
\f2\i sla2
\f1\i0 \uc0\u916  + LatA condition comes from the SH3 region. \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
{\listtext	.	}
\f0\b\fs26 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
SH3 domains are likely recruited by Myosin 3 
\f1\b0\fs24  \uc0\u8232 Type I myosins Myo3 and Myo5, and Vrp1 have genetic or physical interactions with Rvs167 SH3 domains (Lila and Drubin, 1997; Colwill et al., 1999, Madania et al., 1999; Liu et al., 2009). We tested \u8232 the interaction between these proteins and the Rvs167 SH3 region by studying the localization of full-length Rvs167 in cells with one of these proteins deleted, and treated with LatA. By LatA treatment we expected to produce the situation in which BAR-curvature interaction is removed (Fig3b). Then if we lost SH3 interaction because we deleted the protein with which it interacts, we would lose localisation of Rvs167 completely. Deletion 
\fs14 \'a0
\fs24 of neither Vrp1 nor Myo5 in combination with LatA treatment removes the localization of Rvs167. Deletion of Myo3 with LatA treatment removes localization of Rvs167.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl160\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\
{\listtext	.	}#\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
, suggesting that Myo3 recruits SH3 domains to endocytic sites. \uc0\u8232 \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	.	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\uc0\u8232 \
\pard\tx566\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}